 So my pediatrician tells me when I go to see her at my daughter's one month well check appointment. Melanie, you got to go to the hospital. I need you to get X-rays of IV skull because something's wrong and I'm going to tell you what's going on in a minute. And I'm like, well, I have a babysitter for like 20 more minutes so can I do it next week? She goes, Melanie, I'm serious. You need to go right now. I'm like, okay, call a babysitter. And I go on to get these X-rays done and I'm like, my baby's a month old. What do you need X-rays for? Sure, her head looks kind of funny but that's a little endearing to me. I think it's adorable. So my doctor calls me later that day and she goes, Melanie, are you with your loved ones? Are you sitting down? I'm like, I'm with my three children all the time. One of them's eating right now. The other one's sleeping right now. So yes, what's going on? She goes, Melanie, IV has a really rare condition called craniosenotosis. And basically what this is is her head was asymmetrically formed in utero. And what happens is the, I'm going to get real technical. But it's basically like the plate tectonics theory in reverse order. You want their head to be kind of open with these cranial sutures. And so their brain can grow for the first years of the life and then it kind of comes together and forms the former pangia. So that's how it made sense to me when they're telling me this over the phone. So I'm like, okay, so that's kind of cute. I don't know, is this a problem? And she goes, yes, Melanie, it is. What IV has is a right coronal suture. So basically IV's eyes were completely asymmetrical and I didn't know. I just thought it was like, oh, look at her little eyes. This one's small and that one's really big. And she's so cute, you know. And she's like, it's like 10 pounds of baby that I'm analyzing her skull. And she goes, what happened with IV is the right side of her head is completely flat because that bone or that skull plate fused back in her head. And I was like, okay, so what? Like does she have to wear one of those helmets? Because I could put like stickers on it. Like, she'd be so cute with those little helmets with the little flowers. And I put her name like IV and she'd be like all the rage at parades. Like think of the throes, you know. And she goes, she goes, Melanie. IV has to have surgery or her brain won't grow. And when your daughter gets to have skull surgery, you get all the top doctors. I mean, you are celebrity status when you walk into the hospital. IV got her own neurosurgeon. She got her own, and yes, at one month old, my daughter had her own plastic surgeon. And this plastic surgeon is a wonder with his hands. He was a little weird to talk to, but he was phenomenal when he helped my daughter. And I go to the first appointment with the tag team neurosurgeon and plastic surgeon, holding my this point two month baby with my husband. He goes, no, I'm going to tell you about the surgery. And I said, okay, great. He goes, listen, this is what we do. We're going to cut her head open. We're going to cut her head up from ear to ear. And it's going to look like headphones. And I was like, you mean like those little pods that go down? He's like, no, like headphones. I was like, oh, oh, okay. He was French Canadian. And I'm not saying anything about French Canadians, but there was like a disconnect sometimes. I didn't understand what it's saying. So it's like, we're going to cut her head. And I can't. And I can do accents. I can't do this guy. And sorry, he wouldn't be here. But so I cut her head. They so so they're going to cut her head open. And he's like, and I will remove the forehead. And I will break it and reshape it. And I will put it back on using these really tiny screws that will dissolve over time. We're going to stitch her up. And she's going to look like a price fighter for about a month. But then she'll she'll be fine and she'll grow. And I'm like, let's say what? Like, isn't like microsurgery like really in now? Like that just seemed quite invasive to me. And in my mind, I'm like, you're not touching her. She's fine. She's going to live with this wonky head. And we are going to love her. We are going to love her good because she's ivy. And she's our baby. And you're not going to cut her head open. But my only question that I was able to say was, so were you going to shave her hair off? And he goes, ma'am, I just told you I'm going to cut her head open. I'm going to have to shave her head. And I go, sure fine. OK, whatever. And I go home and I'm like, good lord. Like, I thought that was going to a well check. And they go and drop this bomb on me that ivy has to have surgery. So the thing with this surgery is you have to wait. You have to wait until your daughter's a certain size or your son whatever. They can't be too tiny because it's really invasive. It's major surgery. It's blood loss. It's blood transfusion. It's hemorrhagine. It's brain damage. It's all the risks. Capital R, I, S, K. And they have to tell these things to you. And I go, OK, I'm like, does she have to have the surgery? He goes, yes. And I said, don't tell me the risk. Like, if I have to do it, I have to do it. And so we had six months from finding out about ivy to, well, if I know about her condition, to the day of the surgery. And those six months were just awesome. Because I was like, you know what? I read the risk. And I'm not going to go over them again. I'm not going to think about them. But because I know these risks, I know that every day, I get to spend with her as precious. Because I really don't know what's going to happen come June 19th at two o'clock when they tell me it's over, or it's over. And I just spend that time, like, oh man, attachment parotene, like that girl was never set down. She cried for nothing. She got fed, and ever she wanted. She was ivy, and we all loved her. And so, but every night, I would think. I would play it through my head. I like to be prepared. And this is something I was not prepared for. And at night, I would think, what am I going to say to the doctor when he comes out and says, ivy did great. She's amazing. And I'll go, yes, she is. Where is she? Like, that's what I was going to say. But then I also ran through the possibility of like, crap, I'm going to have to tell her sisters, Avery and Eliza. I'm going to have to tell her that she didn't make it. And that's going to be really hard to do. And so, day of the surgery comes. And we are prepared, and we're ready. And eight hours later, eight hours, they're working on my baby. And they come out, or eight hours were waiting for the results of this cranial reconstructive open suture, details, detailed, detailed surgery. And I'm just like ready for anything, you know. And the doctor, or the nurse, comes to the door and says, can ivy's parents come back here? And I watched TV, and I know that that's not good. Because on TV, they come out. If it's good news, they pull you back. If it's bad news. And so, I get it from the chair, and I'm like, I have to have that conversation with Avery and Eliza. I have to tell them their sister didn't make it. And I'm like, so sad about that. I can't even pay attention to the fact that I'm walking through the store, and the surgeon comes down the hall. And I'm like, where's the chaplain? I don't know what's going on. And he goes, ivy did great. No, no, no, ivy's over there. She's fine. I'm literally removing a cleft palate in the other room. But she's fine. And I'm like, you French Canadians, you know. And I proceed to see ivy. And she's sitting on this huge table, and she looks exactly the same. And I'm like, that was eight hours. And but little did I know she would continue to develop. And the swelling would go down. But I was like, God, she's so beautiful. Man, she got prettier. What you got to do? And they removed this towel, and I see her scar for the first time. And they weren't joking. And I was like, literally from one ear, swirly line to the other ear. And it was thick, and it was bloody, and it was scary. But it was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen. And that night I got to stay with her in the PICU at Children's Hospital. And it was easily, easily the best day of my life. So in the next morning, the neurosurgeon comes in and says, hey, how's it going? And I'm like, something profound. Say something profound. She saved your daughter's life. Hey, that's all I said. And I said, what's going on? And she goes, ivy looks great. And I said, yeah, I have a question. Why didn't you shave her hair? She still has her hair. And she goes, oh, Dr. Sanha layer, the plastic surgeon. He is such a sucker for little baby girls. He will do anything he can to not shave their hair. And he has five daughters, so he gets it. I'm like, I don't know what he gets. But I was like, really? He thought of that. He was opening up my daughter's skull, touching her brain, completely changing the way she looked. And he thought about not shaving her hair. And so I think about ivy's hair now, and how it's growing, and how it covers her scar that you can barely see anymore. And I'm like, man, if that hair could talk, it would tell literally the greatest story of the bravest girl in the world.
